Let's get started with building
our own TypeScript library.
And we're going to do it right
inside the workshop project.
You should have installed Volta.
Here are the instructions.
Here's instructions for Windows subsystem.
For Linux, actually, it's the same
command you should be able to run.
If you're using PowerShell,
you'd download an MSI package.
It's kind of, you're taking on
some challenges if you wanna do
JavaScript development on like,
windows without WSL.
Cuz sometimes, like NPM scripts
will assume you're running in a,
like a ICS compliant environment.
Something like just RM won't work
as far as I know in PowerShell.
So, I would recommend
Windows subsystem for Linux.
WSL two is crazy fast.
It's awesome and it's there.
So use it.
You may need to run volta install and then
request a specific node in yarn version.
This is something you would run globally.
So this is not saying I want to pin a
given version in a particular project, but
this is sort of like download, obtain and
use this node in yern@ version,
and there's a separate command in
there you can use to change defaults.
So, hopefully you've
cloned the project repo.
You ran yarn inside the repo so
that it would instal all the dependencies.
And now we're ready to begin our library.
So I'm gonna switch over to VS code so
we can make this together.
And that'll be the branch I use for
this project.
So I'm going to enter the packages folder.
Sorry, I'll start out at the root.
I'm at the root of the project
right now as you should be.
Let's go into packages,
and then within packages,
we're gonna make a directory
called chat-stdlib.
This will eventually become something
we import into our chat app and
we're gonna put some code
in there with some tests,
with some linting, and
this will come full circle and
we'll bring this thing that we're building
into that Slack app in a later step.
Oops, sorry, I have the folder there.
This is the proof that I actually tried
this stuff and ensured that it works.
Okay, so let's enter this folder.
And now,
I'm gonna run a command using npx.
Who knows what npx does?
Yes sir.
>> It invokes the bin for a particular
node package without having to
have a package.json and invoke it.
>> Exactly.
>> npm run.
>> Exactly, so what this lets you do is,
first of all, NPX is useful when
you're running an NPM package that has
some sort of executable script in it.
So you wouldn't want to do
like NPX low dash, right?
NPX lodash would download lodash
on the fly, and it would say,
run a command called low dash
from the lodash package,
and you'd get an error saying,
well, let's try it.
Why imagine what the error is gonna be?
Could not determine executable to run.
There's no executable in this package,
but gitignore has an executable.
So we could do this.
So this is equivalent to like running npm
installed-g gitignore like
go grab the package for
me and
then running the gitignore executable.
So this is like a CLI package
that's published on npm.
So we can prove that this works
by writing npx gitignore --help.
We should see some reasonable,
oops, maybe not.
An unexpected,
a wrong flag provided maybe,
maybe ---help isn't a supported here.
Let's just try it.
Let's pretend we went to
the documentation and
we looked at what this
gitignore package does.
It turns out this creates
a dot gitignore file for us.
And you can provide it the name of
like a language or a framework.
And so this is going to create an awesome
gitignore for like JavaScript and
Node projects.
You could use Python here or
Golang or whatever you want, but
it knows sort of based
on that type of project,
what are the common folders that
shouldn't be checked into Git.
If we look at our folder here, I'm
gonna close this up, chat standard lib.
Look at this,
it's got like a bunch of yarn specific
stuff that it's gonna ignore.
It's got code coverage that it's gonna
ignore, grunt files, Bower components.
This is all very
JavaScript specific stuff.
Node and jspm modules.
Ts build info that's
a type of build cache.
So we're gonna see that
pop up in our repo today.
It's very good that we're ignoring that
this is all stuff that should not be
checked into lint.
So there we go.
We have a great gitignore file that
handles everything we care about and more.
Like, all of this stuff is great.
Some VS Code specific stuff.
So, every language has
a bespoke gitignore like this.
>> Chad said, didn't know this, super cool
and useful to save some time for show.
>> Yep, it's more things.
This will contain more things than you
will think of if you hand draw gItignore.
And remember, once you accidentally
check things in to git depending on your
settings, you may not actually get
to remove those from your git repo.
They're still in your history.
There's still, you know, things that
you potentially have to check out.
So now the next step we're gonna take
is we want to package JSON here.
And we could hand roll that too, but yarn
provides a great command here, yarn init.
And I'm gonna run --yes.
So if you ran yarn init without --yes, it
would ask you a bunch of questions about,
what's your entry point file?
What do you want the name
of your package to be?
What's the initial version?
What kind of license do you
want in your package JSON?
We're just gonna have it go through and
make some reasonable assumptions,
give us a really simple result.
And this is all it did.
So we have a package JSON now, but
it told us exactly what it is.
So we have a name and then it's put, this
is like just a yarn feature where it keeps
track of what package
manager you wish to use.
We don't need to worry about that.
But now we have package JSON.
And we're going to add
a couple things to this.
So first, we need a, we need to indicate
like the entry point of our package.
And we're gonna do that with main.
Dist/index.js, we're gonna end up having
TypeScript source code
in a folder called SRC.
And we're gonna have
the build output in dist.
And if you were to look through that
gitignore file we just created,
it's so common to have a folder
called dist that you don't want to
check in to your git the like
it's already get ignored for us.
All right, we're also gonna add,
we will add a license.
And this we're gonna say no license.
If you wanted to make this MIT license,
you do this whenever you want, for this
context here where we're sort of including
this library as part of a larger app.
This is never gonna really
get published to NPM, so
we're not gonna worry about this.
In fact, we could ensure that.
I don't have this in the instructions,
but it shouldn't be harmful.
Private true.
What does private mean?
If set to true,
NPM will refuse to publish it.
Now we have a safeguard
ensuring that someone will have
to remove this line in
order to make this work.
All right,
GitHub copilot knows where I'm going next.
[LAUGH] We're gonna create some scripts.
So I'm just gonna change
these around a little bit.
So for build, we're gonna run yarn tsc,
I don't know if this
is necessary anymore, but
it's certainly not harmful.
Yarn tsc gives me confidence and I'm
running the TypeScript compiler version
in this repo, the right version
of this TypeScript compiler.
Sometimes my experience has been that it
could just be with older versions of yarn.
If I were to just do this and maybe I like
forgot to install TypeScript in this repo
or something, it might run like a globally
installed version of TypeScript, and
I have been trolled and confused by
that kind of problem enough in my life.
I've decided I'd never
want that to happen again.
Let's get rid of this cuz that's
not how we're gonna do start.
We can take care of test here, though.
We're gonna do the same thing here,
yarn, jest.
We haven't installed jest yet.
We will, we're just taking care of
all of our yarn scripts up front.
Okay, we're gonna have actually
don't think we need the dev script.
There's one in the notes, but
I don't think we really need it.
We do need a lint script.
I tend to just put them
in alphabetical order.
Cuz then when you code auto format,
you don't get what a bunch of thrash where
someone has to stare at it and be like.
Something change here or is it just
shifting lines so yarn eslint and
then we're gonna say we want
to lint the source folder and
we want JavaScript and
TypeScript files to be linted,
this is just file extensions.
Eslint was built for
JavaScript originally,
I think it's still by default
Lint's JavaScript only, but
this is one way to get it to sort of
start paying attention to ts files.
And that's it.
So if we were to describe what
each of these scripts does,
this should build the project.
This should lint the project, right?
Checking for code style, best practices,
things that sort of go
beyond the type checking.
And this should run tests, like we're
gonna have a test that's written
with Jest as the runner, and
this will make sure that that runs.
Make sure you save this
file at this point.
Because now we're gonna do something with
Volta to that will modify package JSON.
So make sure you're in this
chat standard lib folder,
and you're gonna run Volta Pin node@lts.
The latest lts of Node is Node 18.18.2.
If you look at Node's release and
versioning policy,
they always recommend you use
the latest lts in production,
not the latest version of Node.
And then yarn@ latest
major version of, sorry,
latest minor version of yarn 3.
You can think of these just like sort of
package JSON style versioning constraints.
You run that, and
we should see something pop up here.
If we see an error and it relates to
networking, it may be because Volt has
not been fetching node packages this
morning, like bundles of node and yarn.
And I suspect that's
what's happening here.
Should be nearly instant, so
I'm gonna try it one more time.
All right, normally this would work, but
I'm gonna do manually what this would do.
And it should be fine.
We can go to the root level package
JSON of the workshop project.
Grab this, we're just gonna paste
that into our libraries package JSON.
Copy.
Paste.
So the reason I'm doing this is
you potentially could end up like,
if you want to upgrade Node in
a large scale piece of software,
let's say this is like
a Node.js backend of some sort,
like it's big API, you might wanna
test different Node versions.
Locally in little sub parts
of your of your repo and
you could start bumping this up to 20 and
see how that works out.
And then this would let you run
tests in that new node version and
things like that without having to
necessarily like change the whole repo.
This is gonna be a common theme we have
here where we don't wanna be changing
settings or having like big
switches that were flipping for
a project of like 100,000 lines of code.
You wanna be sort of operate locally and
validate,
and then start to apply that change
more broadly and validate there.
We don't like big banks,
they're risky, and
if they don't work out You
can create stoppage for
every contributor to the team and when
that number is big, it's a big problem